---
layout: post
title: "I felt like an imposter, now I am a web developer"
blog-date: 22. November '14
cohort: Spring '14
author: Kane Morgan
picture: "/img/picsOfUs/kane.jpg"
redirect_from: 2014/11/22/kane-blogpost.html
summary: I came to founders and coders from a physics background, so I understood the basics of how to use a computer to solve a problem. My initial plan was a random walk flitting from one online tutorial to another trying to piece things together. The problem with this is that there's no first word in the dictionary, every word is defined in terms of other words. In order to make progress you need a foundation to start from.....
---

I came to founders and coders from a physics background, so I understood the basics of how to use a computer to solve a problem. My initial plan was a random walk flitting from one online tutorial to another trying to piece things together. The problem with this is that there's no first word in the dictionary, every word is defined in terms of other words. In order to make progress you need a foundation to start from.

I was going to need some help so, I started going to Coding  Dojos and Meetups. At the time I felt a bit like an imposter and was hoping no one would notice I had no idea what I was doing. My thinking was that if I could just surround myself with programmers I'd learn by osmosis. It was at one of these events, the London python dojo, that I met Dan and first heard about the course.

I did the course on its second iteration. It was still very much finding its identity. This was useful because it led to a peer led learning style. There was a rule when we did it that before you could ask Dan anything you had to ask one of your peers. What this did was instil a sort of self-reliance, you come to believe that a solution to your problem exists and that there is no reason why you can't find it for yourself. Its an act of faith of sorts, if you stare at the screen for long enough you'll find your syntax error or whatever the problem was and the code will compile.

For me the most useful thing it provided was direction, the web is a sort of weird and wonderful place with hundreds of variations on very similar ideas, knowing which of those are most important to understand helps to speed up the process.

Now I am working as a web developer for a company called Methods Digital. I don't even use the same programming language that I learned on the course, but the foundation of understanding how the web works doesn't change.

