---
layout: post
title: "APIs... Whats All This Fuss About?"
blog-date: 26. November '14
cohort: Autumn '14
author: Hugh
picture: "/img/picsofus/hugh.jpg"
redirect_from: 2014/11/26/hugh-blogpost.html 
summary: I had no idea I'd end up re-examining so much of the technology around me....  
---

I joined Founders and Coders with the intention of learning a little bit of code, so that I could better communicate with developers and work more effectively with them. I had no idea that it would lead me to re-examine my understanding of so much of the technology around me.  

Perhaps one of the best examples of this was what I learnt about API’s. I’d heard the term thrown around by people, like so many other buzzwords (agile, scrum-master etc.) but had no idea what they could do. I think an API is perhaps best understood by grasping the kinds of things you can do with it. I certainly didn’t take much from reading that API stood for Application Programming Interface.

Early on in the course, we learnt how to plug into the Guardian’s API. With the data they make public via this mechanism, we were able to build a newsfeed that automatically refreshed with their latest stories, pictures and content. On another project, we connected to the Twitter API and used it to filter for tweets related to surfing. 

In short, Twitter's API allows you to access the code behind their immense feed of tweets, sorting through what data is relevant to you and plugging it into your application in whatever way makes sense for you. In this instance, we used the geographical information that they supplied on many of the tweets, to create a real-time visual map, which would shows where the surf was most being discussed on twitter around the world.   

I find it remarkable how willing so many platforms are to share their content and data with the outside world. Moreover, its striking how much work they put into making it easily accessible to developers. In essence there appears to be brilliant bargain at play. These platforms gain exposure to a wider audience, and to new ideas of how to use their data, while developers get the opportunity to put together exciting new applications.   



