---
layout: post
title: "The course's real value was in nurturing my problem-solving abilities"
categories: [stories] 
blog-date: 18. November '14
cohort: Winter '14
author: David
picture: "/img/picsofus/davidnaftalin.png"
summary: Before Collective Academy, I had studied Philosophy at university, been a chef at a high-end restaurant and played a bit of music...
---
Before Collective Academy, I had studied Philosophy at university, been a chef at a high-end restaurant and played a bit of music. My first foray into the world of web development was as someone who actually found the concept of computer programming so alien and abstract, that I believed it to be reserved only for the most hyper-intelligent and mathematical of minds. 

I decided to learn programming out of a desire to gain a useful and relevant skill in an increasingly digital world, and be a part of an industry at the cutting edge of technology that is changing the way we interact at a faster pace than ever before. 

At Collective, I found a welcoming and challenging atmosphere, eager students and a tutor who clearly cared about passing on knowledge, but unwilling to simply give you the answers. I found some of the work incredibly difficult and frustrating, and I had to push myself to learn and implement new things, but overcoming each problem became increasingly gratifying. 

I started my first job as a Python/Django developer at Hogarth worldwide in March, one month after I finished the course, and am currently working on Zonza, a digital asset management system built in Django, for marketers and advertisers. As well as this, I am beginning to move beyond Python, building a timeline application in Backbone JS, and a deployment platform, similar to that of Heroku. 

The academy certainly gave me an thorough introduction to programming, a grounding is some computer science and web concepts, as well as the basic building blocks of my first language. However, its real value was in the nurturing of my problem-solving abilities, and the tools it gave me to discover new things and teach myself. 

