---
layout: post
title: "I have never felt so empowered"
categories: [stories] 
blog-date: 19. November '14
cohort: Autumn '14
author: Natalia Baltazar
picture: "/img/picsofus/natalia.jpg"
timeline: timeline-inverted
redirect_from: 2014/11/19/natalia-1-blogpost.html
summary: I have always been viewed as a creative and visual person. Drawn to creative industries, I spent 5 years being paid to design and make couture clothes, paint murals, merchandise shop fronts, etc. Even though I enjoyed much of what I did for a time, I always felt unsatisfied – limited. Searching for more challenges I decided to leave Canada and travel around Europe for 6 months, eventually moving to London...
---

I have always been viewed as a creative and visual person. Drawn to creative industries, I spent 5 years being paid to design and make couture clothes, paint murals, merchandise shop fronts, etc. Even though I enjoyed much of what I did for a time, I always felt unsatisfied – limited. Searching for more challenges I decided to leave Canada and travel around Europe for 6 months, eventually moving to London. 

It was there that I started meeting and talking to developers, seeing their passion and their love for what they do. I took it upon myself to give it a try. My first online course was challenging to say the least. It is difficult to stay motivated on your own. Slightly discouraged, but determined to find other avenues for learning, I looked into coding bootcamps in London. I came across Founders & Coders. After much fuss, I applied and I am so thrilled I did. Founders & Coders is the best learning experience I have had. 
 
It isn’t simply about the learning, or how fun the course is, or how amazing the people involved are: I have never felt so empowered. When I start a project and plan it I am overcome with the amount of creative freedom I have. I  find styling a webpage or a game far easier, and more intuitive, then drawing or painting. And the best part is: as capable as I feel now, I have infinitely more to learn. 
