---
layout: post
title: "I do not believe how far we have come"
blog-date: 17. November '14
cohort: Teacher
author: Dan Sofer
picture: "/img/picsofus/dan.jpg"
timeline: timeline-inverted
redirect_from: 2014/11/17/dan-1-blogpost.html
summary: Founders & Coders has been largely unplanned. It started a couple of years ago when I discovered Coursera, the website that offers academic courses online, and started studying Andrew Ng’s course on machine learning...
---

Founders & Coders has been largely unplanned. It started a couple of years ago when I discovered Coursera, the website that offers academic courses online, and started studying Andrew Ng’s course on machine learning.

I found it hard to study alone, so for my next course I organised a study group. I eventually ended up organising dozens of groups for several different courses. It sort of took over my life and I realised that I probably needed to find a way to turn what I was doing into some sort of a living. 

Then, late in 2013, the Collective project in Camden Town offered me some space to do something a bit more ambitious. So, in January 2014, we took our first cohort of students on a six-week pilot course.  Collective subsequently funded us to run three more courses, the last of which ended at the beginning of November. 

The course has changed radically over the course of the year. When we started, our syllabus was based around a couple of very good courses on the Udacity online platform, but we have moved away from using online courses and switched to group-based learning, working on open-ended projects.

The end of funding has led directly to the crowdfunding campaign and the move to open a school. I could not have contemplated doing this alone, but the energy and commitment of the group of students who have just graduated is incredible. I still do not quite believe how far we have come in the last year and we still have an awful lot of work to do, but we are confident that we can open our doors to the first cohort of students at the new venue in January.
